so continuing on with exceptions so i
mentioned at the end of the last program
we're going to look at modifying the
divide method because the code is a
little bit clumsy right now we can see
that we've actually got 2 trys we've
got a try block on line 19 that ends
with the catch on line 24 and we also
got another one starting on line 26 in
finishing on line 30 so there's no
reason why we can't combine those into a
single try catch block and in fact
that's the recommended way of doing
things so to change it its actually quite
simple because we just really need to
add another catch statement here so we put...
we already got no such element exception caught their so will do....
..and we can just copy the code that was in their and pasted it into their like so and
obviously we gotta catch here that we don't
need anymore but before I do that I'm just
going to copy this code also that was in
the second part
paste that into the try block and likewise
for the result as well and paste that in their and that means
we've now got this empty try catch which we can
now delete so that's actually a much
neater way of doing things and the main
code of the method is all in one place
as well so it's easier to read so you can
sort of see at a glance that the main
part of the code is on line 20 to 23 now
that's the code that is going to be executed
if there aren't any exceptions and the
multiple exceptions that are caught
three lines 24 to 27 makes it clear what we
try to actually catch the potential
errors are their so when an exception happens each
of the catch block is checked in order to
see if one of them handles the particular
exception so as soon as a catch
handles an exceptions found that code
is actually executed and any remaining catch
blocks are ignored so that's an important
thing to remember their now starting
with Java 7 it's actually possible to
handle multiple exceptions with a single
catch block and I will actually be showing you how to do that in a little bit later but here that
wouldn't have been appropriate because we
want to place additional information in
the exceptions before throwing them so
the program should now behave as it should
do with a final decision on what to do
about exception
where it belongs is actually now in the
main method so basically here we can
decide to how we are going to actually cope with a
particular error bearing in mind that we know
throwing the error as we're not dealing
with them as such in the divide method so
what I'm going to do now is actually
put some code in the main method itself
so let's at actually doing that so.....
....
.....so
let's run the program and just try a few
different combinations to see that it
actually works
so if we enter some valid code first 10 valid numbers I should say 5 that works correctly
let's try putting in some random stuff
please enter numbers only using the
digits 0 through 9 and we can't proceed until we do something
100 and make sure he second number is
also working that is working fine 50 that is working ok
and lets continue on and let's do the equivalent
of a ctrl d which is command D
on a MAC need to be in that window and we now the right area you can see how we've actually
caught the error that error was thrown
for arithmetic exception on line 32 and we've now caught
the error in our main method and that is now being outputted the catch block for the arithmetic
exception the code on line 17 and 18 is
now being performed when we exited out
that way notice the input was actually found
so that's actually correct so that's
pretty well all there is two exceptions
so I haven't mentioned the differences
between checked and unchecked exceptions
and I will be doing that later but
that's certainly enough to be getting on
with what we come to look at in this
section which of course is input-output
operations now you will get some more practice
with exceptions in the next few videos
and because we'll be using real numbers
and performing operations that throw
exceptions we won't end up with
such a contrived example that would
actually got here so but it has served
this example to introduce the concept of
exceptions and how we can handle it
throw them them and even if the use of
them to this extent has been a little
bit over the top and in fact you wouldn't
probably bother catching exceptions in
the divide method and in a real world application
probably a more realistic way to handle this
would be to remove all the exception
handling from divide all together and catch them
both in main so probably you'd end up in a
real-world app getting rid of the catches
here
altogether so just basically the 4 lines of code I'm just gonna comment them out now
so that their there if you need to download
the source code but that's probably what you
would actually do you have something like that that's those 4 lines of code then in the main method
and this is the way to actually catch
multiple exceptions logical or no such
element exception so that's the two
errors there and I need to make a change
to this because this is a feature that was
introduced in Java 7 and it looks like
my source isn't selected at that level
so I need to go into their and make that change so
open-source settings project
and I need changed that to version 7 I mean 8 which I've done in the course but if we get
that error
relating to something that was
introduced in Java 7 but obviously version 8
will work as well you can see the error
is now disappeared because we've done
that and I think I might have said it was a logical
or but of course that is a bit wise
inclusive or so it's not the the
standard or that we use a
conditional or with two pipe characters we are just using the one which is a bit wise
inclusive or and that's the way to
check for multiple exceptions so that
this is how what you'd
probably do in a real world application
and run this
so that it works now if we put some invalid input do a command d no such element exception
so its still being caught as you can see but
likewise if we put a valid number in we are still
getting that back because we're putting in some
invalid in we should be able to put 0 in and we still get
our arithmetic exception so
basically this code can be read you can read
that as catch arithmetic exception or no such element exception but again it's the single
pipe and not the double pipe characters now and I
just showed you that if there was an error
coming up with multiple catches and not
supported in this language level you need to
go back into the project structure as I
did and make sure that your using at least Java 7
but in fact in this course we've been using
Java 8 and I do recommended select
that because obviously Java 8 has got
all the features that Java 7 had as well
and just a confirmation the reason we needed to do
that was this catching of multiple
exceptions on one line or in one catch block
wasn't an option until Java 7 alright so
now that you've seen the basics of
catching exceptions it's time to move on
to I/O in Java so when dealing with input and output there's so many things
that can go wrong and so we'll have
plenty of opportunities to examine
exception handling in much more detail
so I'll see you in the next video